Title: OrnaStyler: Ornament-Aware Latent Editing for Content-Preserving 3D Stylization

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.29905v1

Published Time: Tue, 01 Sep 2026 01:58:49 GMT

Number of Pages: 20

Markdown Content:
# OrnaStyler : Ornament-Aware Latent Editing for Content-Preserving 3D Stylization 

## Tomohiro Aizawa 1 Shigeru Kuriyama 2,3 Chunzhi Gu 1∗

1University of Fukui, Japan 

2Toyohashi University of Technology, Japan 

3AI Lab, CyberAgent, Inc., Japan Excavator  Aerial work platform  Forklift  Bulldozer  Dump truck 

> Weathered {content} is enveloped by vines with lush leaves crawling across the surface

Figure 1. OrnaStyler enables consistent, zero-shot, text-guided 3D stylization from the input content assets (top row) to stylized results (bottom row). Our method specifically models the ornament structures to seamlessly integrate with the underlying texture and geometry, which jointly pursues content preservation and style reflection. 

## Abstract 

Text-guided style editing of 3D assets is essential for adapt-ing existing objects to diverse visual aesthetics in digital content creation. Despite rapid progress in 3D shape model-ing, faithfully stylizing an existing asset remains challenging when the desired stylization involves fine-grained structural ornamentation, which requires the model to preserve the source geometry and object identity, while coherently inte-grating new style-specific details. We propose OrnaStyler ,a zero-shot framework for text-guided ornament-aware 3D stylization. Built upon rectified flow-based generative mod-eling, OrnaStyler introduces an inversion-guided editing strategy that recovers content-aware latent representations at both geometry and appearance levels in a staged man-ner to facilitate faithful editing. Our core idea is to ex-plicitly model the spatial configuration of stylistic elements, 

> ∗Corresponding Author.

thereby mitigating the fundamental tension between con-tent preservation and style expression in the voxel space. Specifically, at the geometry level, we manipulate voxel rep-resentations through flow inversion to synthesize ornament-enhanced structures while preserving the spatial identity of the source asset. Then, at the appearance level, we in-troduce an adjacency-aware feature inpainting mechanism to harmonize newly generated ornaments with the origi-nal content, yielding coherent geometry-appearance inte-gration. Our approach operates solely in the inference phase and enables selective editing over geometric aug-mentation or appearance stylization. Extensive experiments on both generated and real-world 3D assets against prior methods demonstrate that OrnaStyler achieves state-of-the-art editing performance in terms of content preservation, style fidelity, and overall visual realism. Code is available at: https:// github.com/ tomohiro0427/ OrnaStyler. 

1arXiv:2608.29905v1 [cs.CV] 30 Aug 2026 1. Introduction 

Recent advancements in 3D asset generation models have enabled the creation of high-quality 3D assets from diverse types of prompts, such as texts [27, 34, 38], or even a single image [17, 28, 33, 35]. Beyond creating new assets from scratch, practical 3D workflows also require style-specific editing, where an existing asset is adapted to a desired artistic style while retaining its recognizable content iden-tity. Practically, style editing (i.e., stylization) techniques for 3D assets are essential for scalable digital content creation across various industries, including gaming, AR/VR, and filmmaking. In addition to style fidelity, one key challenge in 3D styl-ization lies in introducing style-specific structural orna-mentation while preserving the source geometry and object identity, which remains underexplored to date. In particular, these techniques are mostly text-based, and can be catego-rized into two paradigms: (i) UV-texture-based methods 

[19, 31, 47] extract or reconstruct the UV texture map from the content geometry, apply text-driven stylization in the 2D texture domain, and remap the result back to the 3D asset. Although such approaches can reflect style cues (Fig. 2(a)), the inherent domain gap between 2D and 3D often trig-gers inconsistent appearance and geometric artifacts; (ii) 

2D-edit-3D-generation methods [5, 38, 51] edit rendered images and reconstruct a 3D asset from the edited views. While the edited images are visually stylized, the 3D re-construction phase typically disregards the original geomet-ric constraints, resulting in significant structural deviations from the content asset (Fig. 2(b)). More importantly, neither paradigm explicitly models the spatial configuration of the required ornamentation during 3D stylization, and ornament structures are either reduced to 2D appearance changes or in-directly hallucinated through reconstruction, often causing implausible geometry between content and ornaments. In this work, we ask: instead of relying on 2D interme-diates to transfer style and then reconstruct geometry, is it possible to introduce style-specific ornamentation directly in 3D space while keeping the source asset intact? Our core insight is that ornament-aware stylization should be viewed not merely as appearance transfer, but as the carefully de-signed spatial organization of additional structures around the existing content. Yet, since the desired ornament struc-tures are not explicitly given and must remain compatible with the source geometry and appearance, how to localize and harmonize them remains challenging. To this end, we propose OrnaStyler , a novel text-guided style editing framework for 3D assets that explicitly tar-gets ornament-aware stylization. OrnaStyler is built upon a pre-trained rectified flow (RF)-based 3D asset generation pipeline [38] and follows a two-stage modeling paradigm to progressively operate at the voxel and appearance levels during generation. Instead of dealing with ornamentation as (b)  2D -Edit to 3D  -Generation         

> (a) 3D UV -Texture Based
> 3D asset
> UV image Edited UV image Edited 3D asset
> Generated 3D asset Rendered image Edited image
> (c) 3D Structure Latent Editing
> Edited 3D asset Content feature Edited feature
> : Image editing
> : 3D generating
> : UV image editing
> : Our method

Figure 2. Conceptual comparison of 3D style editing approaches. In contrast to UV Texture-based (a) or 2D-Edit to 3D-Generation 

(b) paradigms, our 3D structure latent-guided (c) paradigm yields the most natural and content-preserving editing effects. 

a purely texture-centric effect, OrnaStyler first determines the spatial configurations (i.e., voxel coordinates) of orna-mented structures to reflect style cues at the geometric level. Specifically, we incorporate a flow inversion mechanism to trace back the initial seed latent corresponding to the content voxel representation, and then regenerate ornament-enhanced voxels conditioned on the style prompts using the RF generation process. Since the inverted latent compactly encodes structural information of the original content, ma-nipulating it allows us to adaptively localize the ornament geometries while preventing undesired corruption of the content shape (Fig. 2(c)). Importantly, OrnaStyler miti-gates the inherent spatial competition between content and stylistic structures by explicitly allocating exclusive active voxels for ornaments, which enables style elements to be in-troduced without compromising the integrity of the original geometry. The second challenge is to generate the appearance-level latent feature embeddings for our structured voxels. To ad-dress this, we propose to employ a 3D inpainting strategy to predict the features for the ornaments based on the known content features for visually coherent and harmonized styl-ization. However, we observe that na¨ ıve inpainting may still introduce occasional distortions near the boundaries between content and newly added ornament regions. To by-pass this barrier, we incorporate a spatial mask into the in-painting process that explicitly captures adjacency between ornaments and content to further promote boundary-aware feature integration. Similar to the voxel-level editing stage, we again employ flow inversion to identify seed feature la-tents that faithfully anchor the editing process to the original content representation. The resulting voxel- and feature-level representations are eventually fed into a pre-trained object decoder to synthesize the edited 3D asset. 2As OrnaStyler is training-free, it serves as a convenient yet efficient zero-shot text-guided framework for 3D assets to enable flexible stylization that targets ornament-aware struc-tural editing. Extensive experiments across diverse forms of objects and style prompts demonstrate state-of-the-art editing effectiveness against prior competitors, regarding realism, content consistency, and style fidelity. Our contri-butions can be summarized as follows: 

• Identifying the inherent limitations of existing 3D styliza-tion paradigms in balancing stylistic elements (i.e., orna-ments) and content geometry within constrained spatial capacity. 

• Proposing a novel zero-shot framework, OrnaStyler ,which explicitly models spatial configurations for ornament-enhanced geometries and leverages an inversion-based mechanism to derive seed latents for content-preserving stylization. 

• Developing a 3D inpainting-inspired feature generation strategy that enables seamless appearance harmonization between style and content via adjacency-aware masking for boundary-consistent synthesis. 

## 2. Related work 

2.1. 3D Generative Models 

Early attempts at 3D generation focus on producing geomet-ric shapes using various representations, such as point clouds [23, 54], meshes [20, 46], and Signed Distance Fields (SDFs) [4, 43], typically leveraging diffusion models [22, 53] or Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) [1, 52]. Later ap-proaches [10, 14, 33] have aimed to extend the advantages of 2D diffusion models to 3D generation by distilling 3D information with pretrained 2D diffusion models via Score Distillation Sampling (SDS) [27]. Despite encouraging re-sults, these methods often suffer from limited fidelity and inefficient optimization. To address these efficiency con-cerns, several subsequent works [7, 37, 42] have explored different generation processes with more compact latent rep-resentations. Recently, large-scale 3D generative models [13, 35, 38, 39] have demonstrated remarkable performance by training on extensive datasets, enabling the production of high-quality 3D assets through flow-based generation. A pioneering work is TRELLIS [38], which learns a highly structured latent representation that can be decoded into the texture and geometric layout of a 3D asset. Its extension, TRELLIS.2 [39], further supports image-conditioned gen-eration using field-free sparse voxel representations. As we target text-guided stylization, we utilize TRELLIS as our base model to leverage the robust capability in generating diverse and high-fidelity 3D designs. 

2.2. 3D Style Editing 

Image-Guided Approaches. Given a reference style im-age, 3D style transfer aims to synthesize a 3D asset that reflects the visual style of the reference while preserving the original content. Early methods [8, 16, 26, 45, 49] pri-marily perform stylization in NeRF-based representations by directly optimizing color and appearance to match the reference image. For example, IPdreamer [45] introduced image-prompt score distillation sampling to capture fine-grained appearance cues from complex visual inputs. How-ever, the NeRF-based techniques [8, 16, 49] typically rely on iterative scene-wise optimization, resulting in substantial computational overhead and limited scalability. To address this limitation, more recent methods [12, 25] have shifted to leverage large-scale pre-trained 3D reconstruction or genera-tive models to enable feed-forward stylization for efficiency. Another line of work focuses on texture-based stylization [41, 44, 47], where diffusion models are used to generate stylized textures for 3D meshes. While these approaches can produce visually appealing results, they often fail to preserve the identity of the original content, including both geometry and appearance. To address the issues of content leakage and style deviation during transfer, several works [3, 29, 41] attempt to disentangle style and content repre-sentations to generate textures or geometries that exhibit the desired style. Building upon this idea, more recent works [18, 29, 32] leveraged large-scale 3D generative models to synthesize stylized 3D assets conditioned on both content and reference-style images in a zero-shot manner to enable the integration of content and style information. However, faithfully preserving the original content remains challeng-ing, as reference style images often contain complex struc-tures that can interfere with the underlying geometry and tend to induce content inconsistencies. 

Text-Guided Approaches. Compared to image-based guid-ance, text-based conditioning provides a more concise and flexible interface for controlling target appearance. Most text-driven methods focus on stylizing UV texture maps to match textual descriptions. Specifically, early works [2, 31, 48] reconstruct UV textures by projecting multi-view generated images onto meshes, with additional refine-ments such as camera pose optimization [2] and trimap-based blending [31]. However, these multi-view pipelines are computationally expensive due to per-view generation and often suffer from cross-view inconsistency. Some later attempts [19, 47] leveraged pre-trained text-to-image diffu-sion models to address these issues. For example, Zeng et al. [47] proposed a coarse-to-fine pipeline that first generates a coarse UV texture from two views and then refines details via inpainting. To further mitigate seam artifacts introduced by inpainting, Liu et al. [19] developed a synchronous multi-view diffusion framework that enforces cross-view consis-tency during denoising. Despite their effectiveness in ap-3Inversion  Inversion  

> Inpainting
> “A weathered cart
> with growing vines ”
> “A cart”
> : Logical sum
> Voxel -level
> Ornament
> Synthesis
> Latent -level
> Style
> Editing

Voxel -level Ornament  Synthesis  Latent -level Style Editing  

> Adjacency -
> Aware
> Masking
> Region -Aware
> Ornament
> Stylization

Figure 3. Method overview of our proposed OrnaStyler . Given a content asset 𝐴 𝑐 produced from a content prompt 𝐷 𝑐 and an edited prompt 𝐷 𝑒 , OrnaStyler generates a stylized 3D asset 𝐴 𝑒 in a two-stage manner. It first generates in the Voxel-level ornament synthesis stage the ornament-enhanced voxel coordinates, and then produces the corresponding latent features in the Latent-level style editing stage 

for appearance stylization, to eventually create the edited asset. 

pearance editing, these texture-centric methods are inher-ently limited in their ability to modify underlying geometry. More recent work [38] addresses this limitation by leverag-ing 3D generative priors to enable appearance editing along-side moderate geometric adaptation while preserving coarse structure. However, faithfully maintaining fine-grained at-tributes, such as detailed color patterns and local designs, is still challenging. As our approach does not depend on UV texture maps and explicitly models both geometry and appearance during stylization, it enables content-preserving editing while introducing coherent style-specific structures. 

## 3. Preliminaries 

In this section, we give a brief introduction to the prelimi-naries of TRELLIS [38], which serves as our backbone 3D generation model. Given the prompt 𝐶 provided in image or text, TRELLIS produces a Structured Latent (SLat), which represents the geometry and appearance clues in a unified manner, to eventually generate the 3D asset 𝐴 . In particular, the SLat Z comprises two discrete components Z = {P, F}:the structural geometry P = {𝑝 𝑗 }𝐿 𝑗 =1 representing voxel co-ordinates, and the latent features F = { 𝑓 𝑗 }𝐿 𝑗 =1 derived from aggregated multi-view features using DINOv2 [24], with a total of 𝐿 occupied voxels. Here, 𝑝 𝑗 ∈ { 0, 1, . . . , 𝐾 − 1}3

indexes the position within a voxel grid of resolution 𝐾 , and 

𝑓 𝑗 ∈ R𝑑 represents the latent feature corresponding to an active voxel. 

Rectified Flow. TRELLIS adopts the rectified flow (RF) model [15] as its generative backbone to learn the latent pair (P, F). In particular, RF defines a forward process that pro-gressively perturbs a data sample 𝑥 via linear interpolation 

𝜓 between itself and a pure Gaussian noise 𝝐 ∼ N ( 0, I), fol-lowing 𝜓 𝑡 𝑖 (𝑥 ) = (1−𝑡 𝑖 )𝑥 +𝑡 𝑖 𝝐 , where 𝑡 𝑖 ∈ [ 0, 1] ( 𝑡 𝑖 < 𝑡 𝑖 +1) is an arbitrary timestep. Then, in the reverse process, RF learns a time-dependent velocity field 𝒗 𝑡 𝑖 that transports the noisy observation back toward the clean data distribution, which is parameterized via a neural network 𝒗 (𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐶 ) at the 𝑡 𝑖 -th timestep 𝒗 𝑡 𝑖 = 𝒗 (𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐶 ). Following Euler’s method, the reverse dynamics are discretized as 

𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 −1 = 𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 + ( 𝑡 𝑖 −1 − 𝑡 𝑖 )𝒗 (𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐶 ), (1) where 𝑖 ∈ { 0, . . . , 𝑁 }, 𝑡 0 = 0, 𝑡 𝑁 = 1, and 𝑥 𝑡 0 = 𝑥 . 𝑁 refers to the total number of denoising iteration steps. The learn-ing process is achieved by minimizing the conditional flow matching (CFM) loss [15]: L = E𝑡 𝑖 ,𝑥, 𝝐 || 𝒗 (𝜓 𝑡 𝑖 (𝑥 ), 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐶 ) − (𝝐 − 𝑥 )|| 22.

Asset Generation. Given the condition prompt 𝐶 , TREL-LIS generates the SLat Z in a staged manner to eventually produce the 3D asset 𝐴 . This is achieved by preparing two individual rectified flow models (G 𝑆 , G𝐿 ), serving as the sparse structure generator and the structured latent generator, respectively. In the first stage, G𝑆 is employed to produce sparse structural information by sampling an initial noisy voxel latent S𝑡 𝑁 ∼ N ( 0, I) and then progressively denoising it under the guidance of the condition prompt 𝐶 , following 

S𝑡 0 = G𝑆 (S𝑡 𝑁 |𝐶 ). The resulting “clean” latent voxel feature 

S𝑡 0 is then decoded by a structure decoder D𝑆 to obtain the occupied voxel coordinates P, i.e., P = D𝑆 (S𝑡 0 ).4In the second stage, conditioned on the generated voxel coordinates P, the structured latent generator G𝐿 synthesizes the corresponding latent features F from an initial Gaus-sian noise F𝑡 𝑁 ∼ N ( 0, I), following F𝑡 0 = G𝐿 (F𝑡 𝑁 |P, 𝐶 ).The SLat representation Z is therefore constituted via Z =

{P, F}, which is next passed through an object decoder D

to be converted into a 3D asset 𝐴 in diverse target repre-sentations, e.g., NeRF, 3D Gaussian Splatting, or mesh, via 

𝐴 = D ( Z𝑡 0 ). G𝑆 and G𝐿 are trained separately using the CFM objective. 

## 4. Methods 

Let us now introduce our method, OrnaStyler , to style edit-ing for 3D assets. Formally, given a content 3D asset 𝐴 𝑐 

derived from the text description 𝐷 𝑐 , our goal is to gen-erate an edited asset 𝐴 𝑒 guided by a new text prompt 𝐷 𝑒 .Here, the edited prompt 𝐷 𝑒 fully retains the original content description 𝐷 𝑐 but entails an additional style description 

𝐷 𝑠 (i.e., 𝐷 𝑒 = {𝐷 𝑐 , 𝐷 𝑠 }). As such, 𝐴 𝑒 is expected to be consistent with the style specified in 𝐷 𝑠 , while faithfully pre-serving the geometric structure and appearance cues of the original asset 𝐴 𝑐 . Unlike previous approaches that directly edit the explicit 3D representations or require full regenera-tion of geometry, we propose to explicitly model the spatial distribution of the ornaments with flow inversion, and then harmonize the appearance between style and content with 3D inpainting. As depicted in Fig. 3, our editing pipeline is organized in two stages: (i) Voxel-level Ornament Syn-thesis and (ii) Latent-level Style Editing , with each stage corresponding to the procedure in producing SLat. 

4.1. Flow Inversion-Guided Ornament Stylization 

While prior techniques (e.g., TRELLIS) can perform style editing by directly regenerating voxels using the edited text 

𝐷 𝑒 , such a strategy often leads to significant content degra-dation, as the original shape 𝐴 𝑐 is not explicitly preserved. To maintain strong content fidelity, we instead perform edit-ing directly on the latent embeddings of the content voxels 

P𝑐 , and then spatially localize the active voxel set P𝑒 corre-sponding to the edited asset 𝐴 𝑒 . Since the voxel coordinates 

P𝑐 are generated via RF, we are naturally motivated to lever-age flow inversion to recover their latent representations to facilitate editing. 

Flow Inversion. In general, flow inversion aims to recon-struct the initial latent noise by reversing the ordinary differ-ential equation (ODE) trajectory of deterministic samplers. Formally, let ˆ 𝑥 𝑡 be a latent in the inversion process. Follow-ing the step-wise denoising described in Eq. 1, for the flow model with an Euler method solver, the inverted latent ˆ 𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1

can be derived as ˆ𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 = ˆ𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 − ( 𝑡 𝑖 − 𝑡 𝑖 +1)𝒗 ( ˆ𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 , 𝑡 𝑖 +1, 𝐶 ), (2) where 𝐶 is similarly included for conditioning. While Eq. 2 formulates a principled inversion paradigm, as ˆ 𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 is unknown in each step, 𝒗 ( ˆ𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 , 𝑡 𝑖 +1, 𝐶 ) remains inaccessible. To nonetheless make the inversion tractable, we refer to [11] to approximate the unknown ˆ 𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 by preparing a proxy latent ˜𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 . Specifically, we first estimate ˜ 𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 using the velocity from the previous step ˆ 𝒗 𝑡 𝑖 :˜𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 = ˆ𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 − ( 𝑡 𝑖 − 𝑡 𝑖 +1) ˆ𝒗 𝑡 𝑖 , (3) and then replace the inaccessible 𝒗 ( ˆ𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 , 𝑡 𝑖 +1, 𝐶 ) in Eq. 2with ˆ 𝒗 𝑡 𝑖 +1 = 𝒗 ( ˜𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 , 𝑡 𝑖 +1, 𝐶 ) to perform the actual update: ˆ𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 +1 = ˆ𝑥 𝑡 𝑖 − ( 𝑡 𝑖 − 𝑡 𝑖 +1) ˆ𝒗 𝑡 𝑖 +1 . (4) The stable backward tracing of the latent trajectory can there-fore be achieved by alternately calling Eq. 3 and Eq. 4. Since we aim to derive the inverted latent of the content structure, we endow ˆ 𝑥 0 with the latent voxel embedding S𝑐 

derived with the structure encoder E𝑆 (i.e., S𝑐 = E𝑆 (P𝑐 )), and 𝐶 with the source text 𝐷 𝑐 , respectively, to initialize the inversion. A series of inverted latents { ˆS𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 }𝑖 ={1,··· , 𝑁 }

can therefore be obtained. In practice, we notice that fully inverting the latent to pure noise ˆ S𝑐 𝑡 𝑁 tends to erase fine-grained geometric details of the original shape. To combat this tendency, we introduce a control parameter 𝛼 ∈ ( 0, 1]

to regulate the inversion depth (i.e., delayed injection [40]), and extract an intermediate latent ˆ S𝑐 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 . In principle, this partially inverted latent preserves the core structure of P𝑐 .We next need to determine how to generate stylized voxels 

P𝑒 with desired ornament shapes by using ˆ S𝑐 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 as the seed shape latent. 

Region-Aware Ornament Stylization. A naive way to pro-duce P𝑒 is to directly apply the structure generator G𝑆 using ˆS𝑐 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 and the edited text prompt 𝐷 𝑒 . However, we observe that this may introduce conflicts between the original con-tent structure and the newly imposed style. This is because stylistic geometry often appears in the form of ornaments, whose spatial layout is intrinsically constrained by the under-lying content shape. For example, ornament elements, like vines, should be located in accordance with the underlying surface geometry. Also, conditioning solely on the styled text prompt 𝐷 𝑒 provides ambiguous guidance in content regions, which suppresses the generation of delicate and localized ornament structures. While applying geometric constraints (e.g., SDF-based physical regularizations) can provide more direct guidance, they can also induce extra computational overhead. To address the above issue, we propose a lightweight region-aware structure stylization scheme that adaptively controls the synthesis of ornamented voxels during denois-ing. Specifically, for any content voxel embedding S𝑐 , we de-fine an occupancy mask 𝑀 𝑜 = {𝑚 𝑜 𝑢 }𝑈 𝑢 =1 over the structure-embedding voxel grid of capacity 𝑈 to distinguish the occu-5pied content regions from the unoccupied regions for orna-ment synthesis, whose spatial entries are given by 

𝑚 𝑜 𝑢 =

(

1 if 𝑢 ∈ 𝐿 ′

0 otherwise , (5) where 𝐿 ′ denotes the active content voxels in the embed-ding space. Intuitively, ornamented voxels should only be activated in regions where 𝑚 𝑜 𝑢 = 0. Given 𝑀 𝑜 , we individually compute two velocity fields using G𝑆 , by conditioning one on the original content prompt and the other on the edited prompt. These velocities are then fused in a region-adaptive manner as ˜𝒗 𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 = 𝑀 𝑜 ⊙ 𝒗 𝑠 (S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐷 𝑐 ) + ( 1 − 𝑀 𝑜 ) ⊙ 𝒗 𝑠 (S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐷 𝑒 ), (6) where 𝒗 𝑠 denotes the denoising velocity predicted by G𝑆 , ⊙

represents the element-wise product, and S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 is the structure embedding at timestep 𝑡 𝑖 . Concretely, the 𝐷 𝑐 -conditioned velocity plays the role of a corrective force within the con-tent regions to prevent excessive structural distortion, while the 𝐷 𝑒 -conditioned velocity enables stylistic augmentation in non-content regions. We additionally introduce a style-enhancement correction based on the weighted difference between the edited- and source-conditioned velocities, fol-lowing [11]: 𝒗 cfg  

> 𝑡 𝑖

= 𝑤 𝑠 

𝒗 𝑠 (S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐷 𝑒 ) − 𝒗 𝑠 (S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐷 𝑐 ).Here, we incorporate it as a masked correction to obtain ¯S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 = S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 + ( 𝑡 𝑖 −1 − 𝑡 𝑖 )𝑀 𝑜 ⊙ 𝒗 cfg  

> 𝑡 𝑖

, which aims to spatially anchor the content regions to the source. The update of the structure embedding is eventually formulated as 

S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 −1 = ¯S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 + ( 𝑡 𝑖 −1 − 𝑡 𝑖 ) ˜𝒗 𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , (7) with initialization S𝑠 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 = ˆS𝑐 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 .Then, the denoised output S𝑠 𝑡 0 is again projected back to the voxel space using the decoder D𝑆 . To resolve potential structural discontinuities or holes, we explicitly merge the decoded voxels with the original content voxels to create the stylized structure P𝑒 , following P𝑒 = D𝑆 (S𝑠 𝑡 0 ) ∪ P𝑐 . P𝑒 =

{𝑝 ℎ }𝐻 ℎ=1 eventually contains 𝐻 active voxels. In essence, 

P𝑒 stores the geometric occupancy for ornamented content shape described in the style cues . We next need to determine how to create the corresponding latent feature F𝑒 to compose the SLat. 

4.2. Latent-Level Style Editing 

Directly feeding G𝐿 with the edited voxel coordinates P𝑒 

and prompt 𝐷 𝑒 can generate the target latent feature F𝑒 .However, this can damage the original content appearance encoded in F𝑐 . To preserve content identity, we design a feature-level editing strategy that mirrors the voxel-level editing paradigm by explicitly maintaining content charac-teristics. Specifically, we first stylize the features associ-ated with the content voxels to obtain style-aware content : 𝑚 ℎ𝑙 = 0    

> :𝑚 ℎ𝑙 = 1
> : O -C adjacent : O -C separated
> Ornament
> Dilation
> Adjacency -Aware
> Masking

Figure 4. An example of adjacency-aware masking , which is progressively constructed by determining the overlapping area be-tween the content and dilated ornament voxels. O-C refers to Ornament-Content. 

features, and subsequently harmonize them with ornament features in the manner of 3D inpainting. 

Content Appearance Editing. As in the voxel-level edit-ing, we first identify the feature seed latent of F𝑐 . In par-ticular, given the encoded content feature F𝑐 and P𝑐 , its corresponding text prompt 𝐷 𝑐 , and style text prompt 𝐷 𝑠 , we again enforce flow inversion with the latent generator G𝐿 to recover the initial noise latent ˆ F𝑐 𝑡 𝑁 . Note that, in contrast to the voxel-level inversion, we invert the full trajectory with-out any delaying, since the geometric structure has already been fixed in P𝑐 and encoded within F𝑐 to avoid structural distortion. We then create the style-enhanced feature F𝑐𝑠 ,following the CFM with G𝐿 :

F𝑐𝑠 = G𝐿 ( ˆF𝑐 𝑡 𝑁 | P𝑐 , 𝐷 𝑒 ), (8) which injects stylistic cues while maintaining consistency with the original content appearance to facilitate editing with F𝑐𝑠 .

Adjacency-Aware Masking. Although F𝑐𝑠 provides styl-ized representations for the original content voxels, the ap-pearance of newly generated ornament voxels needs to be inferred in a way that remains coherent with surrounding structures. We are thus motivated to explicitly analyze the spatial adjacency between content and ornament regions to navigate feature synthesis and integration. To this end, we incorporate a feature-level inpainting mechanism G𝐿 , which is further guided by a spatial mask 𝑀 𝑙 = {𝑚 𝑙 ℎ }𝐻 ℎ=1 that cap-tures adjacency between content and ornament voxels, to generate the final latent feature F𝑒 .Specifically, to define the target region, we first isolate the ornament coordinates P𝑠 by subtracting P𝑐 from P𝑒 : P𝑠 =

P𝑒 \ P𝑐 . We then perform 3D morphological dilation on P𝑠 

to determine the regions of influence around these ornament voxels, following P𝑑 = Dil 𝜂 (P𝑠 ), where Dil 𝜂 (·) denotes the dilation operator with 𝜂 parameterizing the iteration number in operating. Eventually, to identify the adjacent region, we measure the intersection of P𝑒 and P𝑐 , and then union it with the original ornament coordinates P𝑠 . The entries of 6our spatial mask 𝑚 𝑙 ℎ can thus be given by 

𝑚 𝑙 ℎ =

(

1 if ℎ ∈ ( P𝑑 ∩ P𝑐 ) ∪ P𝑠 

0 otherwise , (9) where (P𝑑 ∩P𝑐 ) denotes the active adjacent region in content voxels. An example of the construction of our spatial mask is displayed in Fig. 4. Precisely, 𝑀 𝑙 delineates where feature integration should occur to enable seamless synthesis be-tween content and ornament regions for stylization. Unlike the occupancy mask 𝑀 𝑜 defined in the structure-embedding space, 𝑀 𝑙 is constructed after structure decoding over the edited voxel coordinates P𝑒 to identify the ornament voxels and their adjacent content regions for feature integration. 

Inpainting-Inspired Feature Harmonization. To gener-ate the final latent F𝑒 , we are inspired by [21] to extend a zero-shot inpainting strategy for 3D inpainting to achieve harmonized stylization. Our goal here is to synthesize local latent features for the edited coordinates P𝑒 within the spa-tial mask 𝑀 𝑙 , while preserving the integrity of the edited content feature F𝑐𝑠 .Specifically, given the edited voxel coordinates P𝑒 , we first perform feature generation via CFM using the la-tent generator G𝐿 by initializing F𝑒 𝑡 𝑁 with random noise. Following the reverse flow dynamics, the latent features are iteratively updated by estimating the velocity 𝒗 𝑓 𝑡 𝑖 =

𝒗 𝑓 (F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , P𝑒 , 𝐷 𝑠 ), conditioned on the ornament design text 

𝐷 𝑠 : ˜F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 −1 = F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 + ( 𝑡 𝑖 −1 − 𝑡 𝑖 )𝒗 𝑓 𝑡 𝑖 . (10) To preserve consistency with the stylized content features, we then re-noise the features for the content region using linear interpolation between the known data F𝑐𝑠 and the target distribution ( N ( 0, I)): 

𝜓 𝑡 𝑖 −1 (F𝑐𝑠 ) = (1−𝑡 𝑖 −1)F𝑐𝑠 + [ 𝜎 𝑚𝑖𝑛 + ( 1−𝜎 𝑚𝑖𝑛 )𝑡 𝑖 −1]𝝐 , (11) where 𝜎 𝑚𝑖𝑛 denotes the minimum noise scale used by the pretrained rectified model and 𝝐 ∼ N ( 0, I). By incorpo-rating the masking cues within 𝑀 𝑙 , the update for F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 is formalized with 

F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 −1 = 𝑀 𝑙 ⊙ ˜F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 −1 + ( 1 − 𝑀 𝑙 ) ⊙ 𝜓 𝑡 𝑖 −1 (F𝑐𝑠 ). (12) Since 𝑀 𝑙 captures dense adjacency, the iterative denoising with Eq. 12 gradually inpaints the style (i.e., ornament) ap-pearance in a content-harmonized manner. The denoised F𝑒 𝑡 0

is therefore used to constitute the target SLat Z𝑒 = {P𝑒 , F𝑒 𝑡 0 },which is then fed to the object decoder D to generate the final stylized 3D asset 𝐴 𝑒 . See Appendix G for a detailed algorithm for both stages of our method. 

## 5. Experiments 

In this section, we conduct extensive experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of our method against existing text-based 3D style editing methods. 

Implementation Details. As OrnaStyler is by design zero-shot, we directly incorporate the state-of-the-art text-driven 3D generation model from TRELLIS [38] (i.e., pre-trained TRELLIS-text-xlarge) as the backbone. Following TREL-LIS, ( 𝑑 , 𝐾 ) is set to (8, 64). During editing, we uniformly set the number of denoising integration steps to 25 for both generators G𝑆 and G𝐿 . The parameters for the delayed rate and dilation number ( 𝛼 , 𝜂 ) are set to (0.8, 1). 

Dataset. To evaluate the quality and quantity of the style-edited 3D assets, we collect 30 assets with diverse geo-metric and texture styles using TRELLIS. In particular, we condition the generation with either public images with ex-plicit 3D structure or apply text descriptions annotated in the Objaverse-XL dataset [6]. Furthermore, to assess the robustness of our method, we additionally collect 20 assets from Sketchfab 1 under Creative Commons Licenses. As our editing targets ornament-aware stylization, for editing texts, we prepare five distinct styles: vines, snow, seabed, flower, and mud, for each 3D content via text prompts. 

5.1. Evaluation of style adaptation 

Qualitative Evaluation. We first evaluate the style editing performance of our method via visual comparison with ex-isting methods. For a comprehensive assessment, we com-pare our method against two representative categories of state-of-the-art text-guided 3D editing paradigms: 2D-edit-3D-generation methods and UV-texture-based methods. For the 2D-edit-3D-generation paradigm, we first edit rendered images of the content assets using a state-of-the-art image editing model (i.e., ICEdit [51]), and subsequently recon-struct the edited 3D assets using TRELLIS [38]. For the 

UV-texture-based paradigm, we compare against TEXTure [31] and Paint3D [47]. Also, we compare with TRELLIS [38] under its editing mode. Fig. 5 visualizes the com-parison. It can be observed that while UV-texture editing methods [31, 47] inherently preserve the content geometry (i.e., the mesh), they often struggle to maintain design con-sistency with the original content. Moreover, the resulting textures tend to exhibit limited responsiveness to different style prompts, leading to visually similar outputs despite varying textual descriptions. For 2D-edit-3D-generation 

approaches, while they generally produce stylistically plau-sible images, the reconstructed 3D assets can suffer from structural deviations due to the domain gap between 2D ed-its and 3D geometry, particularly in occluded regions such as the back side of objects. In contrast, our OrnaStyler pro-duces stylized 3D assets with higher visual fidelity, while maintaining stronger consistency with the original content geometry. Furthermore, the generated ornament structures are seamlessly integrated with the existing shapes, result-ing in coherent and natural stylization. More results are provided in Appendix. 

> 1https://sketchfab.com. All asset attributions are listed in Appendix F.

7Weathered lantern enveloped by vines 

> with lush leaves crawling
> over the surface
> Magic book covered in soft snow, with a cold
> appearance

Style  text  Content  assets  TEXTURE  ICEdit  TRELLIS  Ours 

> Bulldozer adorned with
> flowers looks colorful
> and vibrant

Figure 5. Qualitative results against prior style editing approaches. Colored textual prompts denote the style texts for editing the content asset generated with the black texts. Table 1. Quantitative evaluation of editing performance in terms of content-consistency on the TRELLIS-based and Sketchfab datasets. 

Method TRELLIS-Generated Sketchfab 

SSIM ↑ PSNR ↑ CLIP ↑ LPIPS ↓ FID ↓ SSIM ↑ PSNR ↑ CLIP ↑ LPIPS ↓ FID ↓

Text2Tex [ICCV’23] 0.761 16.42 0.841 0.205 120.4 0.844 18.38 0.872 0.168 124.6 TEXTure [SIGGRAPH’23] 0.726 16.04 0.815 0.217 151.1 0.805 18.08 0.816 0.174 174.6 TexPainter [SIGGRAPH’24] 0.769 17.12 0.837 0.210 132.9 0.707 13.91 0.830 0.268 143.3 SyncMVD [SIGGRAPH’24] 0.752 16.01 0.838 0.206 118.2 0.822 17.32 0.860 0.173 136.4 Paint3D [CVPR’24] 0.752 15.73 0.857 0.203 117.5 0.839 17.01 0.884 0.164 115.4 TRELLIS [CVPR’25] + ICEdit [NeurIPS’25] 0.643 13.02 0.793 0.289 125.5 0.640 12.45 0.733 0.291 186.4 TRELLIS [CVPR’25] + Gemini 0.653 13.46 0.788 0.299 167.0 0.673 13.12 0.758 0.292 221.9 TRELLIS [CVPR’25] 0.766 17.54 0.863 0.197 106.4 0.848 19.42 0.876 0.158 123.7 

OrnaStyler 0.793 19.36 0.899 0.146 79.6 0.885 21.95 0.898 0.105 103.0 Quantitative Evaluation. We next report the quantitative evaluation results against prior text-based 3D stylization methods. To assess the similarity between content assets and their edited counterparts, we render both assets from 12 fixed viewpoints and compute similarity scores for each view using four widely adopted metrics: Structure similar-ity (SSIM) [36], Peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR), Learned Perceptual Image Patch Similarity (LPIPS) [50], Contrastive Language-Image Pre-Training (CLIP) [30]. In addition, we compute Fr´ echet Inception Distance (FID) [9] to measure distribution-level similarity between the rendered images of edited assets and those of the reference content assets. We in-dividually evaluate on our collected datasets, the TRELLIS-generated and the Sketchfab dataset. For each content asset, we endow all five different editing prompts and then render the resulting edited asset, yielding 1,800 and 1,200 images for each dataset, respectively. The scores for each metric are averaged across all rendered views. We compare OrnaStyler with several representative baselines 2, Text2Tex [2], TEX-

> 2We use the officially released pre-trained models for all baselines.

Ture [31], TexPainter [48], SyncMVD [19], Paint3D [47], TRELLIS [38], Gemini, and ICEdit [51]. For Gemini and ICEdit, we follow the same protocol as in the qualitative evaluation, where edited images are first generated and then reconstructed into 3D assets using TRELLIS. Additional details on rendering and evaluation protocols are provided in Appendix A. Note that the quantitative evaluation here primarily focuses on content preservation rather than style fidelity. 

The results are summarized in Tab. 1. In general, UV-texture editing approaches [19, 31, 47, 48] achieve bet-ter content preservation than 2D image-based techniques [5, 51], which also reflects in the visual comparisons in Fig. 5. Nevertheless, it can be confirmed that OrnaStyler con-sistently outperforms all the compared methods across all evaluation metrics. While the additional geometric struc-tures introduced by ornamentation can potentially decrease structural similarity, our method still yields minimum con-tent design leakage. We can thus verify that OrnaStyler achieves a better balance between content preservation and 8Table 2. Statistic from user study. Each value represents the percentage (%) of participant preferences among five methods for (i) style fidelity and content preservation, (ii) quality of style orna-mentation, and (iii) overall naturalness.                      

> Method (i): Preservation (ii): Ornamentation (iii): Naturalness
> TEXTure [SIGGRAPH’23] 9.3 10.5 12.9 Paint3D [CVPR’24] 5.7 4.7 6.3 Gemini 21.8 30.1 24.0 TRELLIS [CVPR’25] 15.0 11.7 16.0
> OrnaStyler 48.2 43.0 40.8

stylization compared to existing approaches. 

User Study. As there is no universally accepted metric for evaluating stylization quality, and human perception re-mains the most reliable criterion for assessing the editing quality, we conduct a user study to perceptually assess the editing quality. Following [38], we adopt a Single Best An-swer protocol to compare our method against four represen-tative baselines: UV-texture-based editing approaches (i.e., TEXTure [31], Paint3D [47]), 2D-Edit to 3D-Generation ap-proach (i.e., Gemini [5]), and the base model (i.e., TRELLIS [38]). For each content asset, we generate stylized results us-ing identical text prompts across all methods. We randomly select 20 samples from the evaluation dataset and recruit 30 participants for the study. For each sample, participants are asked to choose the best result among different meth-ods according to the following criteria: (i) Style fidelity and content preservation , which evaluates how well the style is applied while maintaining consistency with the original con-tent appearance; (ii) Quality of style ornamentation , which measures the effectiveness and richness of style-specific or-nament integration; (iii) Overall naturalness , which assesses the visual realism and plausibility of both geometry and ap-pearance. The complete questionnaire and details of our user study are provided in Appendix E. The statistics of the perceptual study are tabulated in Tab. 2. Overall, our method is consistently preferred perceptually by participants over competing approaches across all eval-uation criteria. In particular, while the LLM-based method (i.e., Gemini) demonstrates strong capability in producing visually appealing 2D edits, its powerful generative nature often leads to significant deviations from the original con-tent geometry after 3D reconstruction. By contrast, as our method is specifically designed to prioritize ornaments, it harvests higher preference scores in both style fidelity and overall naturalness, indicating the effectiveness in producing more visually plausible and structurally faithful 3D edits. 

5.2. Evaluation of controlling capacity 

OrnaStyler further enables flexible editing controls, spatially and semantically. Below we study each case. 

Selective Editing. As our method follows a two-stage de-sign, we can decouple the editing process and enforce each stage independently. This allows us to apply two differ-ent editing modes: (i) Texture-only stylization , which is Content asset  (a) Texture -only   

> (b) Ornamentation -only (c) Full

Figure 6. Selective editing results. For the content asset, our method allows for (a) texture-only editing, (b) ornamentation-only editing, and (c) full editing. Table 3. Quantitative evaluation of content consistency under different editing modes on Sketchfab. CD is multiplied by 10 3.                     

> Setting Voxel-level Asset-level
> IoU ↑CD ↓LPIPS ↓FID ↓
> Texture-only 1.0 0.0 0.083 81.3 Ornament-only 0.897 0.103 0.075 44.8 Full 0.897 0.103 0.105 103.0

achieved by disabling the voxel-level ornament generation stage; (ii) Ornamentation-only stylization , which is achieved by substituting the content appearance feature F𝑐 for the edited appearance feature F𝑐𝑠 during the latent-level in-painting (Eq. 12) to only add ornament geometry. The results are visualized in Fig. 6. We observe that each mode contributes to distinct aspects of stylization. For mode (i) (Fig. 6(a)), our method focuses solely on appearance adapta-tion (e.g., weathering effects) without introducing geometric distortion, while for mode (ii) (Fig. 6(b)), the introduced or-nament structures are spatially coherent with the underlying geometry with the original appearance unchanged. Combin-ing both modes yields the full editing capability (Fig. 6(c)). We can thus confirm the ability of OrnaStyler to effectively disentangle geometric augmentation from appearance styl-ization, enabling flexible and selective editing control. 

Influence of Editing Modes. To further examine the edit-ing mode discussed in the last paragraph, we quantitatively analyze the influence of each mode on content preservation. Here, we compare the results of each mode (i.e., (i) Texture-only, (ii) Ornamentation-only, and full) with the content shape on both voxel- and asset-level. The voxel-level com-parison adopts the 3D Intersection-over-Union (IoU) and Chamfer Distance (CD), while for the asset level, we use LPIPS and FID to evaluate on the 2D image domain. The results on the Sketchfab dataset are presented in Tab. 3. We observe that the texture-only mode strictly preserves the content geometry to achieve the best performance at the 9Weathered humanoid robot is enveloped by vines with lush leaves    

> A dusty, muddy kids trike with patches of dried and wet earth sticking to its surface
> Number of dilation iterations
> Default
> 𝜂 = 1
> 𝜂 = 1 𝜂 = 3 𝜂 = 6
> 𝜂 = 4 𝜂 = 10

Figure 7. Style intensity controlling by varying dilation numbers. 

voxel level. Introducing ornamentation (i.e., modes (ii) and full) moderately reduces voxel-level geometric similarity, as new structures are included. Yet, the ornament-only mode still maintains strong visual coherence at the asset level, in-dicating that the introduced geometries remain perceptually consistent with the original content. Overall, there exists a trade-off between geometric fidelity and visual expressive-ness. Nonetheless, OrnaStyler consistently yields superior content preservation compared to prior methods (as also shown in Tab. 1), demonstrating its effectiveness in balanc-ing geometric integrity and stylization. 

Style Intensity Control. As we employ morphological dila-tion to construct the adjacency-aware mask between content and ornament regions, it naturally provides a straightfor-ward scheme for controlling style intensity. By varying the number of dilation iterations (i.e., 𝜂 ), we can adjust the spatial coverage over which ornament-related features are propagated and harmonized with the source asset. As shown in Fig. 7, a larger dilation number expands the af-fected regions and yields stronger stylization effects. This demonstrates that OrnaStyler allows users to conveniently manipulate the strength of ornamental elements to yield intensity-controllable stylization. Also, it is worth noting that depending on the initial geometry and the textual de-scription, the same increment in dilation iterations may re-sult in non-uniform degrees of spatial expansion. 

Semantic Control. OrnaStyler further supports semantic refinement of ornamental content. Specifically, by replac-ing the original style-related textual guidance 𝐷 𝑠 with more detailed descriptions during updating with Eq. 10 for feature inpainting in the latent-level style editing stage, users can al-ter the semantic identity of the ornaments while preserving their overall spatial configuration. As illustrated in Fig. 8, a generic flower arrangement can be semantically refined into different identities, such as Marigold , while maintaining the same spatial layout. In addition, more fine-grained textual specifications allow further semantic control, e.g., changing 

Rose into White rose or Purple rose (red dotted area). This confirms the flexibility of our method in enabling desired semantic-level detail control at both ornament identities and Purple rose       

> Flowers Marigold Daisy
> Rose White rose
> Purple rose
> Flowers Marigold Daisy
> Rose White rose

Figure 8. Semantic controlling over ornamentation regarding specific identity (e.g., rose types) or attributes (e.g., colors). 

attributes by simply preparing different 𝐷 𝑠 for feature har-monization. 

5.3. Analysis 

Component Ablation. The voxel-level ornament synthesis stage in our method includes the following three key compo-nents: (a) region-aware guidance, (b) 𝐷 𝑐 guidance, and (c) delayed injection. We here respectively study the effective-ness. Specifically, for (a), we remove the occupancy mask 

𝑀 𝑜 and guide the entire regions with only 𝐷 𝑒 in Eq. 6; for (b), we exclude content description 𝐷 𝑐 in the spatial region by substituting the additional style description 𝐷 𝑠 for edited description 𝐷 𝑒 in Eq. 6; and for (c) we assess the effective-ness of delayed injection by replacing the initial noise S𝑐 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 

with fully inverted noise S𝑐 𝑡 𝑁 in Eq. 7 (i.e., setting 𝛼 to 1). The visualization comparison is given in Fig. 9. Although all ablation scenarios introduce ornamental structures, they exhibit less natural results compared to the full model. With-out region-aware guidance (Fig. 9(b)), the generated orna-mentation lacks alignment with the underlying content sur-face, leading to spatial incoherence. This also restricts the effective allocation of style voxels, as content-aware con-straints are removed. Also, when removing content guidance (Fig. 9(c)), excessive ornamentation is introduced, which damages the original structure and degrades content iden-tity. This is because the inversion latent, although derived from 𝐷 𝑐 , is no longer explicitly constrained during gener-ation, which causes the model to over-emphasize stylistic 10 Input  (a) Full model  (b) w/o  region -aware  (d) w/ o delayed injection (c) w/o 𝐷 𝑐 prompt  

> The cannon covered in snow, with a soft, frosty, and
> cold appearance
> The lift car adorned with
> flowers looks colorful and vibrant.
> : Content region : Ornament region

Figure 9. Component ablation for the voxel-level editing stage. The final edited results are presented together with voxel-level visualizations, in which blue cubes represent the content region, and the orange ones represent the additional ornamentation region. Content asset  (a) w/o Adjacent mask  (b) w/ Adjacent mask  

> 𝑃 𝑒
> : Content region : Ornament region

Figure 10. Influence of adjacency-aware masking. (a) 𝑃 𝑒  (b) Content asset  (c) w/o Inpainting  (d) w/ Inpainting 

Figure 11. Influence of inpainting-based feature integration. 

patterns. A similar effect is observed when disabling de-layed injection (Fig. 9(d)). Here, a full inversion to S𝑐 𝑡 𝑁 

weakens structural priors, resulting in uncontrolled orna-ment propagation. Moreover, the fact that shape deviations from the original geometry caused by erroneous reconstruc-tion are interpreted as stylistic structures further amplifies over-generation. Overall, our full model achieves the best content-style harmonization with the most natural visual ef-fect. 

Influence of Adjacency-Aware Masking. To mitigate unin-tended distortions near the boundaries between content and ornament regions, OrnaStyler incorporates a spatial mask that explicitly captures adjacency between ornaments and content. To evaluate the effect, we ablate it (i.e., setting the 1-valued entry for 𝑀 𝑙 in Eq. 12 to the active voxel region of 

P𝑠 ). As shown in Fig. 10, w/o adjacent mask (b) exhibits discontinuous geometry and broken structural connections between the content and the ornamentation, as the flower to-gether with a small part of the sofa texture appears isolated from the sofa itself. This is because pure generation without adjacency modeling fails to capture the spatial coherence between the content and the ornaments during latent feature generation. 

Influence of Inpainting-Based Feature Integration. Our method incorporates an inpainting-based strategy to con-struct the final latent features. To evaluate its effectiveness, we design a baseline, where the structured latent F𝑒 is gen-erated from scratch using only the stylized description 𝐷 𝑒 

via G𝐿 without applying the inpainting mechanism. The comparison is presented in Fig. 11. The baseline with-out inpainting (c) exhibits noticeable degradation in fine-grained content details, including both geometry and tex-ture. This is because the absence of spatial and semantic constraints causes the model to treat ornament regions and content regions uniformly, leading to the misinterpretation of the added ornament structures as part of the original object (e.g., the highlighted area). In contrast, our inpainting-based formulation enforces a clear separation between ornament and content, allowing each component to be generated under appropriate constraints before integration. The above result validates the effectiveness of inpainting-based feature inte-gration in harmonizing both content and style characteristics during editing. 11 (a) Content asset  (b) Reconstructed asset  (d) Ours (c) TRELLIS Figure 12. Failure cases in preserving detailed designs. 

## 6. Limitation 

Our method builds upon TRELLIS as the generative back-bone, and is therefore inherently limited by its representa-tional capacity for 3D shapes. In particular, we observe that detailed designs, such as texts, are often blurred or poorly preserved (Fig. 12(c, box)). This is mainly because the pre-trained flow matching model in TRELLIS struggles to re-construct high-frequency textures (Fig. 12(b)), which limits the fidelity of fine details in our results. Nevertheless, Or-naStyler still improves over TRELLIS in both style reflection and content consistency (Fig. 12(d)). This limitation could potentially be mitigated by adopting more expressive gener-ative backbones that handle higher-resolution or multi-scale latent representations, which we would like to explore in the future. Also, our formulation focuses on additive ornament editing and does not support subtractive operations that re-quire removing the original content geometry (e.g., erosion). In addition, our method can be advanced to adapt intra-style masking strategies to realize multi-style complex decorative editing, which serves as another interesting future direction. 

## 7. Conclusion 

We have presented OrnaStyler, a zero-shot text-guided 3D asset editing framework that specifically models the spatial configuration of ornaments for stylization. It leverages flow inversion to effectively trace the seed latents at both the voxel and appearance level to prevent structural corruption while pursuing style-faithful and content-preserving stylization. Moreover, we introduce an adjacency-aware spatial mask to ensure visual con-sistency around content-ornament boundaries for further content-style harmonization. Extensive experiments demonstrate that OrnaStyler achieves state-of-the-art performance in ornament-aware 3D shape editing compared with prior methods, both qualitatively and quantitatively. 

## References 

[1] Eric R Chan, Connor Z Lin, Matthew A Chan, Koki Nagano, Boxiao Pan, Shalini De Mello, Orazio Gallo, Leonidas J Guibas, Jonathan Tremblay, Sameh Khamis, et al. Efficient geometry-aware 3d generative adversarial networks. In Pro-ceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 16123–16133, 2022. 3 [2] Dave Zhenyu Chen, Yawar Siddiqui, Hsin-Ying Lee, Sergey Tulyakov, and Matthias Nießner. Text2tex: Text-driven texture synthesis via diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision ,pages 18558–18568, 2023. 3, 8 [3] Dave Zhenyu Chen, Haoxuan Li, Hsin-Ying Lee, Sergey Tulyakov, and Matthias Nießner. Scenetex: High-quality texture synthesis for indoor scenes via diffusion priors. In 

Proceedings of the ieee/cvf conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 21081–21091, 2024. 3 [4] Gene Chou, Yuval Bahat, and Felix Heide. Diffusion-sdf: Conditional generative modeling of signed distance func-tions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international con-ference on computer vision , pages 2262–2272, 2023. 3 [5] Gheorghe Comanici, Eric Bieber, Mike Schaekermann, Ice Pasupat, Noveen Sachdeva, Inderjit Dhillon, Marcel Blis-tein, Ori Ram, Dan Zhang, Evan Rosen, et al. Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier with advanced reasoning, multimodality, long context, and next generation agentic capabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.06261 , 2025. 2, 8, 9, 16 [6] Matt Deitke, Ruoshi Liu, Matthew Wallingford, Huong Ngo, Oscar Michel, Aditya Kusupati, Alan Fan, Christian Laforte, Vikram Voleti, Samir Yitzhak Gadre, et al. Objaverse-xl: A universe of 10m+ 3d objects. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36:35799–35813, 2023. 7 [7] Kangle Deng, Hsueh-Ti Derek Liu, Yiheng Zhu, Xiaoxia Sun, Chong Shang, Kiran S Bhat, Deva Ramanan, Jun-Yan Zhu, Maneesh Agrawala, and Tinghui Zhou. Efficient autoregres-sive shape generation via octree-based adaptive tokenization. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision , pages 11685–11696, 2025. 3 [8] Zhiwen Fan, Yifan Jiang, Peihao Wang, Xinyu Gong, Dejia Xu, and Zhangyang Wang. Unified implicit neural stylization. In European conference on computer vision , pages 636–654. Springer, 2022. 3 [9] Martin Heusel, Hubert Ramsauer, Thomas Unterthiner, Bern-hard Nessler, and Sepp Hochreiter. Gans trained by a two time-scale update rule converge to a local nash equilibrium. 

Advances in neural information processing systems , 30, 2017. 8[10] Ajay Jain, Ben Mildenhall, Jonathan T Barron, Pieter Abbeel, and Ben Poole. Zero-shot text-guided object generation with dream fields. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 867–876, 2022. 3 [11] Guanlong Jiao, Biqing Huang, Kuan-Chieh Jackson Wang, and Renjie Liao. Uniedit-flow: Unleashing inversion and editing in the era of flow models. In The Fourteenth Inter-national Conference on Learning Representations , 2026. 5, 6[12] GeonU Kim, Kim Youwang, and Tae-Hyun Oh. Fprf: Feed-forward photorealistic style transfer of large-scale 3d neural radiance fields. In Proceedings of the aaai conference on artificial intelligence , pages 2750–2758, 2024. 3 [13] Yangguang Li, Zi-Xin Zou, Zexiang Liu, Dehu Wang, Yuan Liang, Zhipeng Yu, Xingchao Liu, Yuan-Chen Guo, Ding Liang, Wanli Ouyang, et al. Triposg: High-fidelity 3d shape synthesis using large-scale rectified flow models. IEEE Trans-

12 actions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 2025. 3[14] Chen-Hsuan Lin, Jun Gao, Luming Tang, Towaki Takikawa, Xiaohui Zeng, Xun Huang, Karsten Kreis, Sanja Fidler, Ming-Yu Liu, and Tsung-Yi Lin. Magic3d: High-resolution text-to-3d content creation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 300–309, 2023. 3 [15] Yaron Lipman, Ricky TQ Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maxim-ilian Nickel, and Matt Le. Flow matching for generative modeling. In 11th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2023 , 2023. 4 [16] Kunhao Liu, Fangneng Zhan, Yiwen Chen, Jiahui Zhang, Yingchen Yu, Abdulmotaleb El Saddik, Shijian Lu, and Eric P Xing. Stylerf: Zero-shot 3d style transfer of neural radi-ance fields. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 8338–8348, 2023. 3 [17] Ruoshi Liu, Rundi Wu, Basile Van Hoorick, Pavel Tokmakov, Sergey Zakharov, and Carl Vondrick. Zero-1-to-3: Zero-shot one image to 3d object. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision , pages 9298– 9309, 2023. 2 [18] Xiaolu Liu, Yicong Li, Qiyuan He, Jiayin Zhu, Wei Ji, An-gela Yao, and Jianke Zhu. Interp3d: Correspondence-aware interpolation for generative textured 3d morphing. In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Represen-tations , 2026. 3 [19] Yuxin Liu, Minshan Xie, Hanyuan Liu, and Tien-Tsin Wong. Text-guided texturing by synchronized multi-view diffusion. In SIGGRAPH Asia 2024 Conference Papers , pages 1–11, 2024. 2, 3, 8, 15 [20] Zhen Liu, Yao Feng, Michael J. Black, Derek Nowrouzezahrai, Liam Paull, and Weiyang Liu. Meshdif-fusion: Score-based generative 3d mesh modeling. In In-ternational Conference on Learning Representations , 2023. 3[21] Andreas Lugmayr, Martin Danelljan, Andres Romero, Fisher Yu, Radu Timofte, and Luc Van Gool. Repaint: Inpainting using denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In Proceed-ings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 11461–11471, 2022. 7 [22] Shitong Luo and Wei Hu. Diffusion probabilistic models for 3d point cloud generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 2837–2845, 2021. 3 [23] Shentong Mo, Enze Xie, Ruihang Chu, Lanqing Hong, Matthias Niessner, and Zhenguo Li. Dit-3d: Exploring plain diffusion transformers for 3d shape generation. Advances in neural information processing systems , 36:67960–67971, 2023. 3 [24] Maxime Oquab, Timoth´ ee Darcet, Th´ eo Moutakanni, Huy Vo, Marc Szafraniec, Vasil Khalidov, Pierre Fernandez, Daniel Haziza, Francisco Massa, Alaaeldin El-Nouby, et al. Dinov2: Learning robust visual features without supervision. 

Transactions on Machine Learning Research Journal , 2024. 4[25] Ipek Oztas, Duygu Ceylan, and Aysegul Dundar. 3d styliza-tion via large reconstruction model. In Proceedings of the Special Interest Group on Computer Graphics and Interac-tive Techniques Conference Conference Papers , pages 1–11, 2025. 3 [26] Hong-Wing Pang, Binh-Son Hua, and Sai-Kit Yeung. Lo-cally stylized neural radiance fields. In 2023 IEEE/CVF In-ternational Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) , pages 307–316. IEEE, 2023. 3 [27] Ben Poole, Ajay Jain, Jonathan T Barron, and Ben Milden-hall. Dreamfusion: Text-to-3d using 2d diffusion. In ICLR ,2023. 2, 3 [28] Guocheng Qian, Jinjie Mai, Abdullah Hamdi, Jian Ren, Ali-aksandr Siarohin, Bing Li, Hsin Ying Lee, Ivan Skorokhodov, Peter Wonka, Sergey Tulyakov, et al. Magic123: One image to high-quality 3d object generation using both 2d and 3d dif-fusion priors. In 12th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2024 , 2024. 2 [29] Zefan Qu, Zhenwei Wang, Haoyuan Wang, Ke Xu, Ger-hard Petrus Hancke, and Rynson WH Lau. Stylesculptor: Zero-shot style-controllable 3d asset generation with texture-geometry dual guidance. In Proceedings of the SIGGRAPH Asia 2025 Conference Papers , pages 1–12, 2025. 3, 15 [30] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervi-sion. In International conference on machine learning , pages 8748–8763. PmLR, 2021. 8 [31] Elad Richardson, Gal Metzer, Yuval Alaluf, Raja Giryes, and Daniel Cohen-Or. Texture: Text-guided texturing of 3d shapes. In ACM SIGGRAPH 2023 conference proceedings ,pages 1–11, 2023. 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, 16 [32] Xiaokun Sun, Zeyu Cai, , Hao Tang, Ying Tai, Jian Yang, and Zhenyu Zhang. Morphany3d: Unleashing the power of struc-tured latent in 3d morphing. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,2026. 3 [33] Junshu Tang, Tengfei Wang, Bo Zhang, Ting Zhang, Ran Yi, Lizhuang Ma, and Dong Chen. Make-it-3d: High-fidelity 3d creation from a single image with diffusion prior. In 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision , pages 22819–22829, 2023. 2, 3 [34] Jiaxiang Tang, Zhaoxi Chen, Xiaokang Chen, Tengfei Wang, Gang Zeng, and Ziwei Liu. Lgm: Large multi-view gaussian model for high-resolution 3d content creation. In European Conference on Computer Vision , pages 1–18. Springer, 2024. 2[35] Tencent Hunyuan3D Team. Hunyuan3d 2.0: Scaling diffu-sion models for high resolution textured 3d assets generation, 2025. 2, 3 [36] Zhou Wang, Alan C Bovik, Hamid R Sheikh, and Eero P Simoncelli. Image quality assessment: from error visibility to structural similarity. IEEE transactions on image processing ,13(4):600–612, 2004. 8 [37] Si-Tong Wei, Rui-Huan Wang, Chuan-Zhi Zhou, Baoquan Chen, and Peng-Shuai Wang. Octgpt: Octree-based multi-

13 scale autoregressive models for 3d shape generation. In Pro-ceedings of the Special Interest Group on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques Conference Conference Papers ,pages 1–11, 2025. 3 [38] Jianfeng Xiang, Zelong Lv, Sicheng Xu, Yu Deng, Ruicheng Wang, Bowen Zhang, Dong Chen, Xin Tong, and Jiaolong Yang. Structured 3d latents for scalable and versatile 3d gen-eration. In Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference , pages 21469–21480, 2025. 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 15, 16 [39] Jianfeng Xiang, Xiaoxue Chen, Sicheng Xu, Ruicheng Wang, Zelong Lv, Yu Deng, Hongyuan Zhu, Yue Dong, Hao Zhao, Nicholas Jing Yuan, et al. Native and compact structured latents for 3d generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ,pages 14419–14429, 2026. 3 [40] Guangxuan Xiao, Tianwei Yin, William T Freeman, Fr´ edo Durand, and Song Han. Fastcomposer: Tuning-free multi-subject image generation with localized attention. Interna-tional Journal of Computer Vision , 133(3):1175–1194, 2025. 5[41] Zhiyu Xie, Yuqing Zhang, Xiangjun Tang, Yiqian Wu, De-han Chen, Gongsheng Li, and Xiaogang Jin. Styletex: Style image-guided texture generation for 3d models. ACM Trans-actions on Graphics (TOG) , 43(6):1–14, 2024. 3 [42] Bojun Xiong, Si-Tong Wei, Xin-Yang Zheng, Yan-Pei Cao, Zhouhui Lian, and Peng-Shuai Wang. Octfusion: Octree-based diffusion models for 3d shape generation. In Computer Graphics Forum , page e70198. Wiley Online Library, 2025. 3[43] Lior Yariv, Omri Puny, Oran Gafni, and Yaron Lipman. Mosaic-sdf for 3d generative models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , pages 4630–4639, 2024. 3 [44] Yu-Ying Yeh, Jia-Bin Huang, Changil Kim, Lei Xiao, Thu Nguyen-Phuoc, Numair Khan, Cheng Zhang, Manmohan Chandraker, Carl S Marshall, Zhao Dong, et al. Texture-dreamer: Image-guided texture synthesis through geometry-aware diffusion. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 4304– 4314, 2024. 3 [45] Bohan Zeng, Shanglin Li, Yutang Feng, Ling Yang, Juan Zhang, Hong Li, Jiaming Liu, Conghui He, Wentao Zhang, Jianzhuang Liu, et al. Ipdreamer: Appearance-controllable 3d object generation with complex image prompts. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Represen-tations , 2024. 3 [46] Xiaohui Zeng, Arash Vahdat, Francis Williams, Zan Gojcic, Or Litany, Sanja Fidler, and Karsten Kreis. Lion: Latent point diffusion models for 3d shape generation. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , 2022. 3[47] Xianfang Zeng, Xin Chen, Zhongqi Qi, Wen Liu, Zibo Zhao, Zhibin Wang, Bin Fu, Yong Liu, and Gang Yu. Paint3d: Paint anything 3d with lighting-less texture diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 4252–4262, 2024. 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, 16 [48] Hongkun Zhang, Zherong Pan, Congyi Zhang, Lifeng Zhu, and Xifeng Gao. Texpainter: Generative mesh texturing with multi-view consistency. In Acm siggraph 2024 conference papers , pages 1–11, 2024. 3, 8 [49] Kai Zhang, Nick Kolkin, Sai Bi, Fujun Luan, Zexiang Xu, Eli Shechtman, and Noah Snavely. Arf: Artistic radiance fields. In European conference on computer vision , pages 717–733. Springer, 2022. 3 [50] Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A Efros, Eli Shechtman, and Oliver Wang. The unreasonable effectiveness of deep features as a perceptual metric. In CVPR , 2018. 8 [51] Zechuan Zhang, Ji Xie, Yu Lu, Zongxin Yang, and Yi Yang. Enabling instructional image editing with in-context genera-tion in large scale diffusion transformer. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Sys-tems , 2025. 2, 7, 8 [52] Xin-Yang Zheng, Yang Liu, Peng-Shuai Wang, and Xin Tong. Sdf-stylegan: Implicit sdf-based stylegan for 3d shape gener-ation. In Comput. Graph. Forum (SGP) , 2022. 3 [53] Xin-Yang Zheng, Hao Pan, Peng-Shuai Wang, Xin Tong, Yang Liu, and Heung-Yeung Shum. Locally attentional sdf diffusion for controllable 3d shape generation. ACM Trans-actions on Graphics (SIGGRAPH) , 42(4), 2023. 3 [54] Linqi Zhou, Yilun Du, and Jiajun Wu. 3d shape generation and completion through point-voxel diffusion. In Proceed-ings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision , pages 5826–5835, 2021. 3 

14 A. Setting and evaluation metrics 

Rendering Setting . For quantitative evaluation, each gen-erated sample is rendered from 12 fixed camera poses. The camera is placed along a circular trajectory centered at the object origin with a fixed elevation angle of 30 °. The az-imuth angles are uniformly sampled at 30 ° intervals over the range [0 °, 360 °). All cameras are oriented toward the object center with a fixed direction from above. 

Evaluation Metrics . To evaluate the similarity between content and edited results, we adopt standard metrics widely used in 3D generation and editing literature [19, 29, 38]: 

• Structure SIMilarity (SSIM) : measures the structural correspondence between the rendered images of the orig-inal content and the edited 3D asset by comparing lumi-nance, contrast, and structural information. 

• Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) : evaluates pixel-wise fidelity by measuring the ratio between the maximum signal and reconstruction noise. 

• Learned Perceptual Image Patch Similarity (LPIPS) :computes perceptual distance using deep features to pro-vide a similarity measure aligned with human perception. 

• Contrastive Language-Image Pre-Training (CLIP) :measures cosine similarity between image embeddings in the CLIP feature space to reflect semantic alignment. 

• Fr´ echet Inception Distance (FID) : evaluates distribu-tional similarity between sets of rendered images in feature space to capture visual quality. 

• Intersection-over-Union (IoU) : quantifies volumetric consistency by computing the overlap between occupied voxel regions of the content and edited shapes. 

• Chamfer Distance (CD) : computes the bidirectional dis-tance between point sets sampled from voxel centroids to evaluate geometric consistency in 3D space. 

## B. Efficiency analysis. 

To evaluate the computational efficiency of text-driven 3D style editing, we report the average runtime of different methods in Tab. 4 on both datasets. As OrnaStyler is built upon the TRELLIS framework, it introduces additional computational overhead to handle ornament-aware process-ing, including voxel augmentation and feature harmoniza-tion. Despite this, our method achieves the second-best runtime among all compared approaches. This result indi-cates that OrnaStyler maintains a favorable trade-off between efficiency and editing quality. 

## C. Parameter sensitivity 

We investigate the delayed injection rate 𝛼 on four representative assets with contrasting structures: thin structures: the helicopter (in Fig. 16) and desk lamp (in Fig. 17), and dense structures: the cart (in Fig. 3) 

Table 4. Timing evaluations (in seconds) for different tech-niques. We calculate the runtime on both TRELLIS-Generated and Sketchfab data.                                

> Method TRELLIS-Generated Sketchfab
> Text2Tex [ICCV’23] 225.9 227.9 TEXTure [SIGGRAPH’23] 485.2 481.1 TexPainter [SIGGRAPH’24] 225.3 178.9 SyncMVD [SIGGRAPH’24] 47.9 44.3 Paint3D [CVPR’24] 29.4 31.0 TRELLIS [CVPR’25] + ICEdit [NeurIPS’25] 43.1 47.2 TRELLIS [CVPR’25] + Gemini 31.8 31.3 TRELLIS [CVPR’25] 2.2 3.1
> OrnaStyler 21.8 22.4

Table 5. Effect of the delayed injection rate 𝛼 .

Thin Dense 

𝛼 CLIP SCR CLIP SCR 0.6 0.99 0.03 0.99 0.01 0.7 0.98 0.07 0.99 0.02 0.8 0.92 0.17 0.93 0.20 0.9 0.80 0.38 0.85 0.43 1.0 0.74 0.52 0.78 0.60 and sofa (in Fig. 10). Specifically, we vary 𝛼 within 

[0.5, 1.0], and report (1) CLIP similarity for content consistency; (2) the Surface Coverage Ratio (SCR) for ornament coverage, defined as SCR = |{ 𝑝 ∈ 𝑃 𝑐 |

𝑝 is face-adjacent to a generated ornament voxel }|/| 𝑃 𝑐 |.As shown in Tab. 5, both structure types exhibit the same trade-off: a smaller 𝛼 produces limited ornamentation, whereas a larger 𝛼 increases ornament coverage at the cost of content consistency. We therefore apply 𝛼 = 0.8 to provide balanced results for diverse structures. 

## D. Prompt types 

We here discuss cases in which the given prompts are in-complete/inaccurate or with semantic conflicts. As depicted in Fig. 13 (top row), when replacing “Humanoid robot” with the less specific “Robot” and the inaccurate “Machine”, the resulting stylizations still remain visually consistent, in-dicating that OrnaStyler is reasonably robust to moderate prompt imprecision, as the source geometry and appearance are also anchored by inversion of the input asset. We further evaluate semantically contrasting content and style condi-tions by applying the snow style to a fire-themed 3D asset in Fig. 13 (bottom row). Despite the semantic conflict of fire and snow, our method still integrates the contrasting geometries coherently, which demonstrates that OrnaStyler also realizes cross-semantic stylization. Nevertheless, Or-naStyler does not model physical interactions or temporal effects, and therefore cannot simulate causal responses (e.g., ice melting). 15 (d) Content asset   

> A stone fireplace covered in snow, with a cold appearance
> Weathered {content name} is enveloped by vines with lush leaves
> {Humanoid robot} {Machine} {Robot}
> (a) Original (c) Inaccurate (b) Incomplete
> (e) Cross-style result

Figure 13. Robustness to different prompt types. Top: styliza-tion results with (a) original, (b) incomplete, and (c) inaccurate content prompts. Bottom: cross-semantic stylization (e) of a fire-themed asset (d) with the snow style. 

## E. User study 

We provide additional details of our user study. The study involves a total of 30 participants, including 14 internal participants with backgrounds in machine learning and 16 external participants without professional expertise. None of the participants received compensation. The user interface of our study is illustrated in Fig. 14. Each study session takes approximately 20–25 minutes to complete, consisting of 20 questions with 3 evaluation criteria per question. Before the evaluation, participants are given detailed ex-planations of each assessment criterion to ensure consistent understanding. For each question, we present the style-edited results generated by different methods in a random-ized order to avoid bias. The compared methods include TEXTure [31], Paint3D [47], Gemini [5], TRELLIS [38], and our method. Specifically, for each question, the ren-dered views (front and back) of the original content 3D asset are displayed in the upper-left corner. The editing results from different methods are shown under identical viewpoints to ensure fair comparison. The corresponding style text prompt is also provided for reference. 

## F. Asset attribution 

We utilize 3D assets obtained from Sketchfab under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) license. Each model from Sketchfab is attributed as follows: 

• ”Asylum Bed” by FallenBranches 

• ”Tiny Tikes Kids Table” by bungleboy 

• ”Iron Rack Shelf for Home Storage” by jackk 

• ”Kids Balance Bike” by bagussper 

• ”Low Poly Viking Drinking horn” by LachieRobertson 

• ”Kids Trike” by bungleboy 

• ”Stylised PBR Sci-Fi Chair” by Goob 

Figure 14. User study interface with the instructions for partici-pants (top). 

• ”Pirate Cannon” by Maxwell McCurry 

• ”Table” by Anch0r 

• ”Desk lamp” by GokouFG 

• ”WUD TOOLBOX HP” by Geug 

• ”Adidas Bad Bunny Coffee Shoes Free” by camilooh 

• ”Dumpster” by TheMadraver 

• ”Headset” by Elite Big Speakerman 

• ”WOODEN DUCK TOY” by UJJWAL CHAUHAN 

• ”PPC200” by Interiors3D 

• ”Old wall telephone” by renaud lapierre 

• ”Old Sofa” by Amad Junaid 

• ”Old Rowboat” by TooManyDemons 

• ”QWTA00” by Interiors3D 16 Algorithm 1 Voxel-level Ornament Synthesis 

Input: Content asset 𝐴 𝑐 , Content text 𝐷 𝑐 , Style text 𝐷 𝑒 ,Pre-trained TRELLIS model (E , E𝑆 , D𝑆 , velocity 𝒗 𝑠 

predicted by G𝑆 ), Number of denoising iteration steps 

𝑁 , Delay rate 𝛼 , Guidance strength 𝑤 𝑠 

Output: Stylized coordinates P𝑒 

1: Z𝑐 ← E ( 𝐴 𝑐 ) ⊲ Z𝑐 = {P𝑐 , F𝑐 }

2: ˆS𝑐 𝑡 0 ← E 𝑆 (P𝑐 ) ⊲ ˆ𝒗 𝑡 0 ← 𝒗 𝑠 ( ˆS𝑐 𝑡 0 , 𝑡 0, 𝐷 𝑐 )

3: /* Inversion */ 

4: for 𝑡 𝑖 = 𝑡 0, ...., 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 do 

5: ˜S𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 +1 ← ˆS𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 − ( 𝑡 𝑖 −𝑡 𝑖 +1)𝒗 𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝒗 𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 +1 ← 𝒗 𝑠 ( ˜S𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 +1 , 𝑡 𝑖 +1, 𝐷 𝑐 )

6: ˆS𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 +1 ← ˆS𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 − ( 𝑡 𝑖 − 𝑡 𝑖 +1)𝒗 𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 +1

7: S𝑠 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 ← ˆS𝑐 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 

8: /* Generation */ 

9: Obtain 𝑀 𝑜 from Eq. (5) in Section 4.1 ⊲ 𝑀 𝑜 ∈ { 0, 1}

10: for 𝑡 𝑖 = 𝑡 𝛼𝑁 , ...., 𝑡 0 do 

11: 𝒗 𝑐 𝑓 𝑔 𝑡 𝑖 ← 𝑤 𝑠 (𝒗 𝑠 (S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐷 𝑒 ) − 𝒗 𝑠 (S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐷 𝑐 )) 

12: ¯S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 ← S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 + ( 𝑡 𝑖 −1 − 𝑡 𝑖 )( 1 − 𝑀 𝑜 ) ⊙ 𝒗 𝑐 𝑓 𝑔 𝑡 𝑖 

13: ˜𝒗 𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 ← 𝑀 𝑜 ⊙𝒗 𝑠 (S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐷 𝑐 )+( 1−𝑀 𝑜 )⊙ 𝒗 𝑠 (S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝐷 𝑒 )

14: S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 −1 ← ¯S𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 + ( 𝑡 𝑖 −1 − 𝑡 𝑖 ) ˜𝒗 𝑠 𝑡 𝑖 

15: P𝑒 ← D 𝑆 (S𝑠 𝑡 0 ) ∪ P𝑐 

16: return P 𝑒 

Algorithm 2 Latent-level Style Editing 

Input: Content asset 𝐴 𝑐 , Style coordinates P𝑒 , Content text 

𝐷 𝑐 , Edited text 𝐷 𝑒 , Style text 𝐷 𝑠 , Pre-trained TRELLIS model (E , D, velocity 𝒗 𝑓 predicted by G𝐿 ), Number of denoising iteration steps 𝑁 

Output: Stylized asset 𝐴 𝑒 

1: P𝑐 , F𝑐 ← E ( 𝐴 𝑐 ) ⊲ ˆF𝑐 𝑡 0 ← F𝑐 , 𝒗 𝑓 𝑡 0 ← 𝒗 𝑓 ( ˆF𝑐 𝑡 0 , 𝑡 0, 𝐷 𝑐 )

2: /* Content latent feature editing */ 

3: for 𝑡 𝑖 = 𝑡 0, ...., 𝑡 𝑁 −1 do ⊲ 𝑡 0 = 0, 𝑡 𝑁 = 1

4: ˜F𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 +1 ← ˆF𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 −( 𝑡 𝑖 −𝑡 𝑖 +1)𝒗 𝑓 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝒗 𝑓 𝑡 𝑖 +1 ← 𝒗 𝑓 ( ˜F𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 +1 , 𝑡 𝑖 +1, 𝐷 𝑐 )

5: ˆF𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 +1 ← ˆF𝑐 𝑡 𝑖 − ( 𝑡 𝑖 − 𝑡 𝑖 +1)𝒗 𝑓 𝑡 𝑖 +1

6: F𝑐𝑠 𝑡 0 ← G 𝐿 ( ˆF𝑐 𝑡 𝑁 |P𝑐 , 𝐷 𝑒 ) ⊲ F𝑐𝑠 = { 𝑓 𝑗 }𝐿 𝑗 =1

7: /* Adjacency modeling */ 

8: P𝑑 ← P𝑠 ← P𝑒 \ P𝑐 

9: P𝑑 ← Dil (P𝑑 )

10: 𝑀 𝑙 ← ( P𝑑 ∩ P𝑐 ) ∪ P𝑠 ⊲ 𝑀 𝑙 ∈ { 0, 1}

11: /* Ornament inpainting */ 

12: F𝑒 𝑡 𝑁 ∼ N ( 0, I) ⊲ Sampling 

13: for 𝑡 𝑖 = 𝑡 𝑁 −1, ...., 𝑡 0 do 

14: ˜F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 −1 ← F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 + ( 𝑡 𝑖 −1 − 𝑡 𝑖 )𝒗 𝑓 (F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 , 𝑡 𝑖 , P𝑒 , 𝐷 𝑠 )

15: F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 −1 ← 𝑀 𝑙 ⊙ ˜F𝑒 𝑡 𝑖 −1 + ( 1 − 𝑀 𝑙 ) ⊙ 𝜓 𝑡 𝑖 −1 (F𝑐𝑠 )

16: 𝐴 𝑒 ← D ( Z𝑒 ) ⊲ Z𝑒 = {F𝑒 𝑡 0 , P𝑒 }

17: return 𝐴 𝑒 

## G. Algorithm 

Our overall algorithm for both stages of our method is given in Alg. 1 and Alg. 2, respectively. 

## H. More results 

We show more style editing results of our method in Fig. 15 and visual comparisons in Figs. 16 and 17. 17 Security camera 

# Gate 

Weathered {content} is enveloped by vines with lush leaves 

{content} covered in snow, with a soft, frosty, and cold appearance 

{content} adorned with flowers looks colorful and vibrant 

# Humanoid robot 

# Aerial work platform 

# Biplane 

# Phonograph Figure 15. Qualitative results of asset editing by OrnaStyler. Colored textual prompts denote the style texts for editing the content asset generated with the black texts. 

18 A futuristic spaceship with metallic surface covered in snow, 

with a cold 

appearance 

Weathered helicopter is enveloped by vines with lush leaves crawling over every surface 

A majestic lion standing on a rock covered in snow, with a cold appearance 

Weathered vintage leather suitcase enveloped by vines with lush leaves and crawling over every surface 

Futuristic red toy blaster with transparent magazine adorned with blooming 

flowers, colorful 

and vibrant 

Weathered excavator, enveloped by vines with lush leaves crawling over the surface 

# Content assets Style text  ICEdit  Gemini  TRELLIS  Ours 

# TEXTure  Paint3D  SyncMVD Content assets Style text  Ours Figure 16. Visualization of comparisons against prior methods on Trellis-Generated data. 

19 Content assets 

Weathered duck toy is enveloped by vines with lush leaves crawling over the surface 

A dusty, muddy kids trike with patches of dried and wet earth sticking to its surface 

Viking drinking horn covered in snow, with a soft, frosty, and cold appearance 

Desk lamp adorned with blooming flowers, colorful and vibrant 

Sci-Fi chair encrusted with barnacles, weathered and corroded by the seabed 

Asylum bed covered in snow, with a cold appearance 

# Style text  ICEdit  Gemini  TRELLIS  Ours 

# TEXTure  Paint3D  SyncMVD Content assets Style text  Ours Figure 17. Visualization of comparisons against prior methods on Sketchfab data. 

20